# T-542-HGOP: Day One

## **Q:** What is Linux?
**A:** Linux is a free and open-source operating system mostly written in C and assembly code. The system uses the Linux kernel, an open-source monolithic Unix-like kernel, originally released in 1991 by Linus Thorvalds. Perhaps the most defining factor of this operating system is that it is open-source, meaning that the source code of Linux is available for viewing, editing and contributing to thus making Linux easily customisable as well as developers are free to distribute their modified versions. Linux was originally created to resemble the Unix operating system and key components in both operating systems are similar.

## **Q:** Why should you use Linux? What are the pros and cons?
**A:** Linux has to offer many benefits to the user. As mentioned, Linux is a free operating system as opposed to other mainstream OS as well as it’s open source and open for modification meaning developers are free to edit and redistribute the source code of Linux which is useful for customisability and encourages constant development of the Linux OS, making it more powerful and adding more features to it. Another beneficial factor of Linux is that it is generally more secure than the other mainstream operating system for two reasons; fewer viruses exists for the Linux environment so the chances of getting a virus on Linux are much lower than on other operating systems and because that the Linux source code is open-source most flaws have been discovered and fixed, making it less prone to security issues. Linux is also generally a more lightweight operating system, can run on practically any hardware, it generally runs faster and is more stable.

But Linux also has some drawbacks to it compared to other mainstream OS. It has been criticised for having quite the high learning curve as Linux is not as user-friendly or self-descriptive as other mainstream operating systems and that users need to educate themselves before fully being able to make use of the OS’ benefits (of course, this could partly be due to general familiarity as Linux is less popular than Windows or MacOS and therefore users are generally more accustomed to the latter two systems). Another drawback is that there’s no dedicated technical support for Linux. Perhaps the biggest drawback of Linux however is compatibility issues with major software programs, video games and Windows/Mac propriety applications. This is a major issue especially for those that need to make use of Enterprise Solutions or for those that use their operating system for the purpose of playing video games. However, there often exist some free software solutions that mimic some other software that are incompatible with Linux, but as to be expected these mimic software solutions do not always suffice.
